OS is basically a software that takes care of making the hardware work for you.
It is the RESOURSE ALLOCATER AND HARWARE MANAGER.

 A special kind of software
which is between the hardware of the PC, and the programs that you want to
use and work with. This piece of software is the Operating System,


MAIN FUNCTIONS OF OS:

Detect hardware

Manage processes

also acts as translator, converts 0,1 to human readable form

Manage memory

Initiate user interfaces


Establish file systems 


Manage access and user authentication

Provide a platform for administrative use 


Start-up services


linux os is better bcz of throughput :-
multiple tasks executed per unit time...
fast exectuon of multiple task, more less process time,
windows on the other hand crashes if multiple task r tried to get done from it.


.................................................
MAJOR FUNCTIONS OF OS:-
1.RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
MULTIPLE USERS CONNECTED TO SINGLE MACHINE, like a server 
parallel users connected to a machine and using its resources , like hard disk and memory.
 
2.MEMORY MANAGEMENT 
each application getting executed is first send to RAM
RAM, allocates memory to it and sends it to the  cpu.
after that cpu schedular executes it according to its prioirty
after that RAM gets the memory back to it.

3.PROCESS MANAGEMENT 
multiple applications running in a same time, 
each has its corresponding process wd it, so its the OS which decides how much resource
to b given to an individual process.
CPU SCHEDULING

4.STORAGE MANAGEMENT 
store data in drive using file system


5.SECURITY MANAGEMENT 
os refers to specific steps to protect OS from threats, viruses and malware.
checking authentications at the time of boot up also refers to authentications.

.....................................................

DRIVERS:
 a driver is a software component that lets the operating system 
and a device communicate with each other. 

PROCESS:-
A process is a program that is running on your computer.
In computing, a process is the instance of a computer program that is being executed by one or many threads.
It contains the program code and its activity.


A process is a program in execution. Process is not as same as program code but a lot more than it. 
A process is an 'active' entity as opposed to program which is considered to be a 'passive' entity


When a program gets executed, it becomes a process.

Daemon process
The key difference between a Process and a Daemon is that a Daemon's parent is init - the first process started during *Nix booting. 
And that is why a Daemon is not connected to a terminal. So when you close your terminal it will not be killed by OS. 


Daemon process in Operating System
In multitasking computer operating systems, a daemon 
 is a computer program that runs as a background process, rather than being under the direct control of an interactive user



UNIX AND LINUX OS:-
Linux is open source and is developed by Linux community of developers. Unix was developed by AT&T Bell labs and is not open source. ... 
Linux is used in wide varieties from desktop, servers, smartphones to mainframes. Unix is mostly used on servers, workstations or PCs.

Linux is just the kernel. Unix is a complete package of Operating system.
Linux is a Unix clone,behaves like Unix but doesn't contain its code



The kernel is a computer program at the core of a computer's operating system that has complete control over everything in the system. 
It is the "portion of the operating system code that is always resident in memory", and facilitates interactions between hardware and software components.
assessing the hardware is done through kernal.
acts as  a bridge between hardware and kernal


The Kernel is responsible for low-level tasks such as disk management, memory management, task management, etc.

Operating system is a system software. Kernel is a part of operating system. 
Operating system acts as an interface between user and hardware. Kernel acts as an interface between applications and hardware.


KERNAL & USER MODE:-
system memory is divided into kernal space and user space.

at user space, the processes of our applications r running.

program 1
program 2
program 3



coding of any application is done in ur mode but fo running/executing it requires kernal space

For running any application kernal mode is required, like running the djnago app , a cmd is req
from user space for accessing a particular hardware to kernal space a system call is sent ,

these calls in c language.sends request from user space to kernal space to let it access the hardware and execute a particular function.

GNU C LIB,, standard lib for system calls.. for converting a user space to kernal space

functions like print(), write(),chmode, sudo command etc



linux uses a herirical system for files, stores in directories
a root directory and further gets emulated from it,
no drives like that in windows

LINUX USE:-
This operating system was first used as a server OS and then was used
as a base for Android developers 



as OS Is an intefphase between computer hardware and user , KERNEL is an interphase between User and Application running.its interphase btw hardware nd application
Its not same as OS but is a core part of it.

it makes the application interact wd the specific hardware and get its job done.


BENEFITS OF LINUX:-

COST EFFECTIVE
FREE FROM VIRUSES
SYSTEM STABILITY
INSTALLATION 
SUPPORT

ram = main memory:
AS long as pc is working ram is being used



Central processing unit (CPU), principal part of any digital computer system, generally composed of the main memory, control unit, and arithmetic-logic unit.

The CPU is responsible for executing a sequence of stored instructions called a program .

fetch,decode,execute,store

Common CPU components
control unit (CU)
arithmetic logic unit (ALU)
registers.......................Registers are a type of computer memory used to quickly accept, store, and transfer data and instructions that are being used immediately by the CPU.
cache.
buses.
clock.



Linux-compatible softwares come in .rpm for RPM (Fedore, SUSE) or
.deb for Debian (Debian, Ubuntu, Xandros) packages.



Shutteris the package name. Use the package name and run the apt-get
install command again.

apt-get Shutteris



Aside from installing packages via the command line, you can also use
the Software & Updates Tool. The GUI provides a simple and easy way to
update your Ubuntu software and download packages



Using the Shell Features

...Command Completion


Reboot :- Restart the computer

Shutdown :- Turn off computer



To see the processes that are consuming the most CPU resources
and memory allocation, use the top command.


To exit the top command output display, press Q




LINUX COMMANDS:-

for getting a software in ubuntu through cli:

apt-get install <package-name>


for installing u need to be as normal user from root user,
for that do the following:-

asscesing root user:-


normal user :- create a file , read a file, edit a file but cant do system changes or install dependencies & libraries/packages

super user:- create a file , read a file, edit a file & also system changes without any error




sudo su  :- for logging into the root user

apt-get install python


for keeping urself in normal user nd installing dependencies u have to use command:-


sudo apt-get install python

"sudo" gains all security privilidges for root users that can also be used for normal user

SHORTCUTS:

CTRL  +  A : cursor at start
   
CTRL  + E : cursor at the end


command for creatig file :-  " touch "


touch myfile.txt


ls :- shows all text/ data in current directory

for any file editing :- 'vi' editor is used


vi is default linux editor


vi myfile.txt 


i :- for insert mode

for saving thhe data and coming out of insert mode press ESC key

shift and ; used for save


:wq 

thus through it data has been sucessfully saved  

cat myfile.txt :- displays all data


CREATING DIRECTORY/folder :-

mkdir 

mkdir cnc-practise

ls ( for checking if the file hasbeen made or not)

change directory :"cd"


SCRIPT IS BASICALLY A COMPILED PROGRAM:-
if  u want to make same task over and again then use script




SCRIPT CREATION:-

touch simple.sh   // for scripts .sh extension

for writing mode


vi simple.sh


i 


#!/bin/bash 

echo my first name is: $1
echo my last  name is: $2


:wq

now, use command for going into the file & passing arguments "$"


./simple.sh 


FILE PERMISSIONS:-

0 :- no permission

1 :- executable permission

4:-   read permission


giving executable command


ls -l : for telling which commands right now we have wd a particular file:


chmode 777 simple.sh 

it means give permisiions to all three classes:

-rw : permissions grant to single user 
-rw- :for groups
-r-- : for other users


ls -l



./simple.sh anie raja  

now it will run


for changing permissions that r given to the file owner

for giving read only permissions:

chmod 477 


it means giving read only permissions to the first class only 
and giving all three permissions to the other classes

ls -l


CPU INFORMATION & HARD-DISK checking using cli commnads :-

uname -a

uname -p

lscpu :- command for giving complete detail of cpu

cat/proc/cpuinfo


for disk space:

df: tells us space/ memory used

df -h : output same but in human readable form

....for checking file size in directory 


du


for telling the total size of directory not indic=vidual

du -s

for downloading : software centre

shell executes our commands and also executing multiple programms and softwares


apt -get install <pkgname>

for removing a software

sudo apt remove <pkg name>


clear = cls




sudo apt-cache search python         : when u dont know whole info about the pkg nd just want to rmv it

















































































































































































































































































